you
a good name is better than precious
ointment and the day of death than the
day of one's birth better to go to the
house of mourning than to go to the
house of feasting for that is the end of
all men and the living will take it to
heart sorrow is better than laughter for
by a sad countenance the heart is made
better the heart of the wise is in the
house of mourning but the heart of fools
is in the house of mirth it is better to
hear the rebuke of the wise than for a
man to hear the song of fools for like
the crackling of thorns under a pot so
is the laughter of the fool this also is
vanity
surely oppression destroys a wise man's
reason and a bribe debases the heart the
end of a thing is better than its
beginning the patient in spirit is
better than the proud in spirits do not
hasten in your spirit to be angry for
anger rests in the bosom of fools do not
say why were the former days better than
these for you do not inquire wisely
concerning this wisdom is good with an
inheritance and profitable to those who
see the Sun for wisdom is a defence as
money is a defense but the excellence of
knowledge is that wisdom gives life to
those who have it consider the work of
God for who can make straight what he
has made crooked in the day of
prosperity be joyful but in the day of
adversity consider surely God has
appointed the one as well as the other
so that man can find out nothing that
will come after him
I have seen everything in my days of
vanity there is a just man who perishes
in his righteousness and there is a
wicked man who prolongs life in his
wickedness do not be overly righteous
not the overly wise why should you
destroy yourself do not be overly wicked
nor be foolish why should you die before
your time it is good that you grasp this
and also not remove your hand from the
other for he who fears God will escape
them all wisdom strengthens the wise
more than 10 rulers of the city for
there is not a just man on earth who
does good and does not sin also do not
take to heart everything people say lest
you hear your servant cursing you for
many times also your own heart is known
that even you have cursed others all
this I have proved by wisdom I said I
will be wise but it was far from me as
for that which is far off an exceedingly
deep who can find it out I applied my
heart to know to search and seek out
wisdom and the reason of things to know
the wickedness of folly even of
foolishness and madness and I find more
bitter than death the woman whose heart
is snares and nets whose hands are
fetters he who pleases God shall escape
from her but the sinner shall be trapped
by her
here is what I have found says the
preacher adding one thing to the other
to find out the reason which my soul
still seeks but I cannot find one man
among a thousand I have found but a
woman among all these I have not found
truly this only I have found that God
made man upright that they have sought
out many schemes
[Music]